Flow Results Data Package
==========================

A container and data format for describing a collection of interactions or "responses" reported by end-users of a digital system using the Flow Data paradigm.  It provides for the open publication, exchange, and analysis of Flow-generated interactions across supporting platforms.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Authors</td>
    <td>Mark Boots (VOTO Mobile)<br>
Peter Lubell-Doughtie (Ona)<br>
Eduardo Jezierski (InSTEDD)<br>
Evan Wheeler (UNICEF)
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Media Type</td>
    <td>TODO: once registered:
application/vnd.org.flowinterop.results+json</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Version</td>
    <td>1.0.0-rc.1</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Last updated</td>
    <td>2017-06-30</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Created</td>
    <td>2017-06-30</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

# Table of Contents

   * [Language](#language)
   * [Introduction](#introduction)
      * [Scope](#scope)
   * [Terminology](#terminology)
   * [Example](#example)
   * [Specification](#specification)
      * [Components](#components)
      * [Descriptor](#descriptor)
      * [Resource](#resource)
      * [Resource Data (found at external path)](#resource-data-found-at-external-path)
      * [Question Types](#question-types)
         * [multiple_choice_one](#multiple_choice_one)
         * [multiple_choice_many](#multiple_choice_many)
         * [numeric](#numeric)
         * [open](#open)
         * [text](#text)
         * [image](#image)
         * [video](#video)
         * [audio](#audio)
         * [geo_point](#geo_point)
         * [datetime](#datetime)
         * [date](#date)
         * [time](#time)

# Language

The key words MUST, MUST NOT, REQUIRED, SHALL, SHALL NOT, SHOULD, SHOULD NOT, RECOMMENDED, MAY, and OPTIONAL in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

# Introduction

Within the field of ICT tools for humanitarian and development work (ICT4D), a range of software applications has emerged for digital data collection and mobile engagement with remote populations.  These applications employ a diversity of communication channels, such as text messaging, automated voice calls, unstructured supplementary service data (USSD), web-based forms, and in-person surveys with digital data entry.  Despite differences, many of these applications are based on a similar paradigm of "Flow-based" data collection using logical decision trees.  However, it was not previously possible to exchange data collected using different applications and vendors unless ad-hoc or one-to-one data mapping software was created.

By defining an open specification for the exchange of data generated by Flow-like software applications, organizations can reduce ad-hoc software development effort; accelerate the creation of new interoperable analysis tools for visualization, dashboards, and decision making; speed response time to sharing data in crisis situations, and reduce risks associated with vendor lock-in.

## Scope

The purpose of this specification is to standardize the exchange of data between data collection and data analysis/data visualization applications within the ICT4D sector.  The focus of the data covered by this specification is the "results" or "responses" recorded during interactions with end-users through digital channels.  

The specification is intended to be relevant to both file-based and API-based data exchange.  It is agnostic to the communication channel used for data collection.  

The specification is self-sufficient and can be used independently, but it is also designed to complement the Flow Definition specification describing logical flows of mobile engagement content.  It is also designed to be flexible enough to describe responses collected with non-Flow-based applications, such as the suite of tools based on the Open Data Kit (ODK) framework, and to create a bridge between established and evolving technologies.

# Terminology

**Contact**: A Contact is an end-user of a digital interactive system, providing input or "responses" to the system.   Contacts can be human beings interacting via a channel such as IVR, SMS, USSD, social media messaging, web browsers, Contacts may also be physical entities (such as a waterpoint) or automated systems (programmable agents) that do not necessarily represent a human being.

**Response**: A Response is a single input given by a contact when prompted during an interaction with a digital interactive system.  As an example, answering a multiple choice question asking, "Are you male or female?" by choosing the female option constitutes providing a Response.

**Question**: A Question is a prompt to the Contact for a Response.  When looking at results data, knowledge of the nature of the question can help to analyze and visualize it.  For example, numeric question responses might be graphed on a scatter plot, while multiple-choice question responses are naturally visualized on a bar chart or pie chart.  Often additional information about the question is necessary beyond simply the responses, such as the complete set of choices presented in a multiple choice question.  It's important to clarify that questions might not be literal questions; they could be the output of a lookup, script, or logical analysis within a digital engagement system, but we refer to them uniformly for the sake of convenience as Questions.

(TODO: We agreed that Question isn't the best terminology, but I found that while drafting the spec this made it much more legible and understandable, compared to "Variable" or "Result" which are much less precise.)

# Example

A minimal example of a Flow Results data package, stored as files on disk, is given here:

There is a Descriptor file in JSON format, e.g. `flow-results-example-1.json`:

```
{
  "profile":"flow-results-package",
  "name":"flow-results-example-1",
  "flow_results_specification_version":"1.0.0-rc1",
  "created":"2017-06-30 15:35:27+00:00",
  "modified":"2017-06-30 15:38:05+00:00",
  "id":"b03ec84-77fd-4270-813b-0c698943f7ce",
  "title":"A nice title",
  "resources":[
    {
      "path":"data/flow-results-example-1-data.json",
      "name":"flow-results-example-1-data",
      "mediatype":"application/json",
      "encoding":"utf-8",
      "schema":{
        "fields":[
          {
            "name":"timestamp",
            "title":"Timestamp",
            "type":"datetime"
          },
          {
            "name":"row_id",
            "title":"Row ID",
            "type":"string"
          },
          {
            "name":"contact_id",
            "title":"Contact ID",
            "type":"string"
          },
          {
            "name":"question_id",
            "title":"Question ID",
            "type":"string"
          },
          {
            "name":"response",
            "title":"Response",
            "type":"any"
          },
          {
            "name":"response_metadata",
            "title":"Response Metadata",
            "type":"object"
          }
        ],
        "questions":{
          "ae54d3":{
            "type":"multiple_choice",
            "label":"Are you male or female?",
            "type_options":{
              "choices":[
                "male",
                "female",
                "not identified"
              ]
            }
          },
          "ae54d7":{
            "type":"multiple_choice",
            "label":"Favorite ice cream flavor?",
            "type_options":{
              "choices":[
                "chocolate",
                "vanilla",
                "strawberry"
              ]
            }
          },
          "ae54d8":{
            "type":"numeric",
            "label":"How much do you weigh, in lbs?",
            "type_options":{
              "range":[
                1,
                250
              ]
            }
          },
          "ae54da":{
            "type":"open",
            "label":"How are you feeling today?",
            "type_options":{

            }
          },
          "ae54db":{
            "type":"geo_point",
            "label":"Where are you?",
            "type_options":{

            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Additionally, there is a data file containing the data described by this resource, in this example, `data/flow-results-example-1-data.json`. This file provides all individual Responses in the following JSON format:

```
[
  [ "2017-05-23T13:35:37-04:00", 20394823948, 923842093, "ae54d3", "female", {"option_order": ["male","female"]} ],
  [ "2017-05-23T13:35:47-04:00", 20394823950, 923842093, "ae54d7", "chocolate", {} ],
  [ "2017-05-24T15:15:37-04:00", 20394823952, 923842086, "ae54d3", "male", {"option_order": ["male","female"]} ],
  [ "2017-05-23T15:16:12-04:00", 20394823953, 923842086, "ae54d7", "vanilla", {} ],
  [ "2017-05-23T15:16:20-04:00", 20394823954, 923842086, "ae54d8", 196, {} ],
  [ "2017-05-23T15:16:38-04:00", 20394823955, 923842086, "ae54da", "I am feeling curious.", {"type": "text", "language": "eng"} ],
  [ "2017-05-23T17:25:12-04:00", 20394823956, 923842093, "ae54da", "https://myexampleflowserver.org/resources/audio/20394823956.ogg", {"type": "audio", "language": "eng", "format": "audio/ogg"} ],
  [ "2017-05-23T17:25:47-04:00", 20394823957, 923842093, "ae54db", "[35.678323, -108.25343]", {} ]
]
```

# Specification

The Flow Results specification builds on the [Data Package](https://specs.frictionlessdata.io/data-package/) specification. Thus a Flow Results Data Package must be a Data Package and conform to the Data Package specification.

Additionally, a Flow Results data package must conform to these additional requirements:

## Components

A Flow Results data package consists of one [Descriptor](https://specs.frictionlessdata.io/data-package/#descriptor), which contains exactly one [Resource](https://specs.frictionlessdata.io/data-resource/) describing the interaction results.  

## Descriptor

The Descriptor JSON object must contain the following required metadata properties:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Property</td>
    <td>Description</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`profile`</td>
    <td>Indicates this package is a Flow Results data package. Must be in the format of the example.</td>
    <td>'flow-results-package'</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`flow_results_specification_version`</td>
    <td>Indicates the version of this specification the package is compliant with. The Flow Results specification adheres to semantic versioning.</td>
    <td>'1.0.0-rc1'</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`created`</td>
    <td>The timestamp for when this package was created/published. This must be in the format of RFC 3339.</td>
    <td>'2017-06-30 15:35:27+00:00'</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`modified`</td>
    <td>The latest timestamp for when the data in this package was refreshed/updated/changed. This must be in the format of RFC 3339.</td>
    <td>'2017-06-30 15:38:05+00:00'</td>
  </tr>
</table>


The following metadata properties are recommended, consistent with the Data Packages specification:  (TODO: Should any of these be required?)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Property</td>
    <td>Description</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`name`</td>
    <td>A short url-usable (and preferably human-readable) name of the package. This MUST be lower-case and contain only alphanumeric characters along with ".", "_" or "-" characters. It will function as a unique identifier and therefore SHOULD be unique in relation to any registry in which this package will be deposited (and preferably globally unique).</td>
    <td>"flow-results-demo-package"</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`id`</td>
    <td>A property reserved for globally unique identifiers. Examples of identifiers that are unique include UUIDs and DOIs.

A common usage pattern for Data Packages is as a packaging format within the bounds of a system or platform. In these cases, a unique identifier for a package is desired for common data handling workflows, such as updating an existing package. While at the level of the specification, global uniqueness cannot be validated, consumers using the id property MUST ensure identifiers are globally unique.</td>
    <td>"b03ec84-77fd-4270-813b-0c698943f7ce"</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


## Resource

The Resource contains the interaction results.  The Resource must conform to the [Data Package Resource](https://specs.frictionlessdata.io/data-resource/) specification. Additionally:

Inline data (data in JSON format within the Descriptor) must not be used. This means that a `path` must be provided for the Resource. The Resource path shall point to a file reference (for packages stored on disk) or a URL.

The `schema` property of the resource must be provided inline, and must not use an external schema file or URL.

The `schema` property must contain a `fields` object describing the 6 columns within the Resource data. These fields are common to all Flow Results Packages, but are provided here for compatibility with software designed to dynamically read Tabular Data Resources:

```
{
  "fields":[
    {
      "name":"timestamp",
      "title":"Timestamp",
      "type":"datetime"
    },
    {
      "name":"row_id",
      "title":"Row ID",
      "type":"string"
    },
    {
      "name":"contact_id",
      "title":"Contact ID",
      "type":"string"
    },
    {
      "name":"question_id",
      "title":"Question ID",
      "type":"string"
    },
    {
      "name":"response",
      "title":"Response",
      "type":"any"
    },
    {
      "name":"response_metadata",
      "title":"Response Metadata",
      "type":"object"
    }
  ]
}
```

The `schema` property must additionally contain a `questions` object describing metadata for all the Questions pertaining to Responses in this package.  The object identifier (e.g.: 'ae54d3') of questions in this object connects to the Question ID found in each Response row:

```
{
  "questions":{
    "ae54d3":{
      "type":"multiple_choice",
      "label":"Are you male or female?",
      "type_options":{
        "choices":[
          "male",
          "female",
          "not identified"
        ]
      }
    },
    "ae54d7":{
      "type":"multiple_choice",
      "label":"Favorite ice cream flavor?",
      "type_options":{
        "choices":[
          "chocolate",
          "vanilla",
          "strawberry"
        ]
      }
    },
    "ae54d8":{
      "type":"numeric",
      "label":"How much do you weigh, in lbs?",
      "type_options":{
        "range":[1, 350]
      }
    },
    "ae54da":{
      "type":"open",
      "label":"How are you feeling today?",
      "type_options":{

      }
    }
  }
}
```

The following properties are required for each question:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Property</td>
    <td>Description</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`type`</td>
    <td>Describes the semantic type of the Question, which must be from the following list:
multiple_choice_one
multiple_choice_many
numeric
open
text
image
video
audio
geo_point
date
time
datetime</td>
    <td>'type':'multiple_choice_one'</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`label`</td>
    <td>A human-readable label that can be used to present and provide context for this Question/Response.  This is provided in a single default language; localization is left outside the scope of this specification.</td>
    <td>'label':'Are you male or female?'</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`type_options`</td>
    <td>Dependent on the `type`, an object representing additional metadata for this Question.  Required and optional type_options are listed below under Question Types.</td>
    <td>'choices':['male', 'female']</td>
  </tr>
</table>


## Resource Data (found at external path)

The Resource file or URL must provide the Response data in JSON "row array" format, as shown in the following example:

```
[
  [ "2017-05-23T13:35:37-04:00", 20394823948, 923842093, "ae54d3", "female", {"option_order": ["male","female"]} ],
  [ "2017-05-23T13:35:47-04:00", 20394823950, 923842093, "ae54d7", "chocolate", null ]
]
```

The Resource must be valid JSON according to RFC 7159.  No enhancements or constraints are added beyond the JSON specification.

Each row array shall provide exactly 6 elements ("columns") describing a single Response from a Contact. In order, the columns represent:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>#</td>
    <td>Column</td>
    <td>Description</td>
    <td>Examples</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>1</td>
    <td>Timestamp</td>
    <td>The date and time the response was given by the contact. The timestamp must be formatted according to RFC 3339, and indicate the timezone offset of the timestamp, in the following format: `2017-05-23T13:35:37-04:00`. (If the timestamp is in UTC, the timezone offset of +00:00 shall be included.)</td>
    <td>2017-05-23T13:35:37-04:00</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2</td>
    <td>Row ID</td>
    <td>A unique value identifying an individual Response within the Flow Results package. The value must be unique within the entire package.  Row IDs may be an integer or a string.   (The purpose of Row IDs is for systems offering paginated access to Responses within a Package.  Although the rows may not be ordered by Row ID, software hosting data at paginated URLs must maintain an internal ordering based on Row IDs, such that it is possible to return the next X rows after a given Row ID.)</td>
    <td>20394823948

'6085f5f2-80a2-423a-9f66-be3b3d777eea'</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>3</td>
    <td>Contact ID</td>
    <td>A unique value identifying the Contact that. Contact IDs must be unique within a Flow Results Package, and may provide additional meaning between vendor platforms across Packages. Contact IDs may be an integer or a string.</td>
    <td>923842093

'43979e6c-6b59-4ccf-a260-4361ebbc3264'</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>4</td>
    <td>Question ID</td>
    <td>A unique value identifying the Question that this Response is for.  This connects Response rows to the Question metadata in the Descriptor.</td>
    <td>'ae54d3'</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>5</td>
    <td>Response</td>
    <td>The actual value of the Response provided by the Contact.  The format of the Response is determined by nature of the Question (see below).</td>
    <td>'female'</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>6</td>
    <td>Response Metadata</td>
    <td>For any Question type, there might be additional metadata describing the Response which varies for each row. This metadata might be required or optional, depending on the Question type.  For example, for a multiple choice question, an optional metadata property is the `choice_order` that the multiple choice options were presented in.</td>
    <td>{'choice_order': ['male', 'female'] }</td>
  </tr>
</table>


## Question Types

The following Question Types describe the nature of possible Responses. This section lists the required and optional parameters within the `schema` metadata, and within the Response Metadata for each row:

### multiple_choice_one

Represents a selection of one choice from a set of discrete choices.

#### Response format

The Response must be a string; it must be one from the set of `choices`.

#### Type options (type_options)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>choices</td>
    <td>Yes</td>
    <td>Array of choices presented to the Contact</td>
    <td>{'choices': ['male', 'female'] }</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>choice_order</td>
    <td>Recommended</td>
    <td>When choices might be presented in random order across Contacts, should indicate the order the choices were presented in.</td>
    <td>{"choice_order": ["female", "male"] }</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


### multiple_choice_many

Represents a selection of one or more choices from a set of discrete choices.

#### Response format

The Response must be an array of strings, one for each choice selected by the Contact. Each string must be one from the set of `choices`:

```
["education", "roads"]
```

#### Type options (type_options)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>choices</td>
    <td>Yes</td>
    <td>Array of choices presented to the Contact</td>
    <td>{'choices': ['roads', 'healthcare', 'education', 'jobs'] }</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`choice_order`</td>
    <td>Recommended</td>
    <td>When choices might be presented in random order across Contacts, should indicate the order the choices were presented in.</td>
    <td>{"choice_order": ["healthcare", "education", "jobs", "roads"] }</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


### numeric

Represents a numeric response; a measurement of a single number.

#### Response format

An integer or floating-point number:

```
35
```

#### Type options (type_options)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>range</td>
    <td>Optional</td>
    <td>When the responses are to be visualized on a scale, provides the minimum and maximum relevant values of the range.</td>
    <td>{'range':[0,10]}</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


### open

Represents a Response that might be in one of several formats. This Question type is useful for representing open-ended Responses to Flows that run over multiple channels (IVR, SMS, social media) and allow the Contact to submit an audio message, image, video, or text response.

#### Response format

Response must be in the format required for the Question type of each row (where `type` is identified within the response metadata.)

#### Type options (type_options)

None used at the`schema` level.  (Refer to the `type_options` within each row.)

#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`type`</td>
    <td>Yes</td>
    <td>Must be one of the other supported question types (e.g., `text`, `audio`, `image`, etc.)</td>
    <td>'text'

'image'</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`type_options`</td>
    <td>Yes</td>
    <td>Includes the schema metadata (normally found in the schema) that would be used for that response row.</td>
    <td>{}

{'format':'png'}</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>For additional response metadata, refer to the details for each respective question type.</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


### text

Represents any arbitrary text response.

#### Response format

A string:

```
"I am learning this specification."
```

#### Type options (type_options)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`language`</td>
    <td>Optional</td>
    <td>The ISO 639-3 code for the language of the response, if known.</td>
    <td>{'language':'eng'}</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


### image

Represents a picture submitted by the Contact.

#### Response format

A string with the URL where the image can be retrieved. (TODO: Do we want to support inline image data?)

```
"https://myexampleflowserver.com/resources/image/23429837433.png"
```

#### Type options (type_options)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`format`</td>
    <td>Recommended.</td>
    <td>The mime type of the image.  If not provided, the format may be guessed from the extension or the Content-Type header of the resource.</td>
    <td>"image/png"</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


### video

Represents a video submitted by the Contact

#### Response format

A string with the URL where the video can be retrieved. (TODO: Do we want to support inline video data?)

```
"https://myexampleflowserver.com/resources/videos/23429837434.png"
```

#### Type options (type_options)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`format`</td>
    <td>Recommended.</td>
    <td>The mime type of the video.  If not provided, the format may be guessed from the extension or the Content-Type header of the resource.</td>
    <td>"video/mp4"</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`language`</td>
    <td>Optional</td>
    <td>The ISO 639-3 code for the language of the response, if known.</td>
    <td>{'language':'eng'}</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


### audio

Represents an audio recording submitted by the Contact

#### Response format

A string with the URL where the audio can be retrieved. (TODO: Do we want to support inline audio data?)

```
"https://myexampleflowserver.com/resources/audio/23429837435.png"
```

#### Type options (type_options)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`format`</td>
    <td>Recommended.</td>
    <td>The mime type of the audio.  If not provided, the format may be guessed from the extension or the Content-Type header of the resource.</td>
    <td>"audio/wav"</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`language`</td>
    <td>Optional</td>
    <td>The ISO 639-3 code for the language of the response, if known.</td>
    <td>{'language':'eng'}</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


### geo_point

Represents a geospatial coordinate on the surface of the earth.

#### Response format

An array of two floating point numbers with the latitude and longitude: `[lat, long]`

```
[52.0835780,-106.6104880]
```

#### Type options (type_options)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`address`</td>
    <td>Optional</td>
    <td>TODO: is this useful?</td>
    <td>"Plot 41, Kotei Residential Rd, Kotei, Kumasi, Ashanti Region, Ghana"</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


### datetime

Represents a timestamp with both date and time

#### Response format

A string containing the date and time in the RFC 3339 format with timezone extension:

```
"2017-06-30T13:45:58+05:30"
```

#### Type options (type_options)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


### date

Represents a date.  We caution that dates are ambiguous without times and timezone offsets. Interpretation of the date is left to the publishing and consuming platforms. For example, this could be the date of the start of a pregnancy, in an implied local timezone.

#### Response format

A string containing the date in the format:

```
"2017-06-30"
```

#### Type options (type_options)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


### time

Represents a time.  We caution that times are ambiguous without dates and timezone offsets. Interpretation of the date is left to the publishing and consuming platforms. For example, this could be the time of day a Contact would like to receive messages, in an implied local timezone..

#### Response format

A string containing the time in the 24h format:

```
"14:58:35"
```

#### Type options (type_options)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Response Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>Required</td>
    <td>Details</td>
    <td>Example</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

# Specifications for API-based access to Flow Results data packages

TODO
